---
layout: post
title: Nearly Missed It
---

Tonight was the first night I almost plumb forgot about my little writing commitment.

It's changing my life in small ways already, by the way. I won't go into detail yet, I don't want to jinx it this early. Suffice to say, repetition *is* in fact ideal. Practice *is* indeed indispensable.

I remembered earlier, and was thinking on a full post I'll flesh out tomorrow or the next day, but as the night drew on I forgot because of genuinely chilling and enjoying my partner's company. It was another very bad pain day, they just kind of stack up unbelievably high, I'm just holding it together to the best of my ability till my "do you need surgery or not?" consult on February 18th.

There are so many different types of pain. Even if you narrow it down to "nerve pain", so many types. Hot and searing, so much so you'd expect to hear a sizzle. Deep hard and impactful, like the shock of a toothache. Pinchy and reverberating, buzzing through all the subnerves like you hit a tuning fork wrong.

So many types and lately I'm getting them all at least sometimes. I have this increasing dysphoria linked to/rooted in the pain. It feels like my left leg needs to be yanked out of the socket, and the chiro does that sometimes and it gives me relief, and sometimes I like "flying karate kick" the leg myself and get it to crack. 

All this half-assed shit I'm doing to stave the pain off, it's like stuffing Play-Doh in the cracks of the dyke as the spring melt comes. I wake up rougher and rougher. We have a plan for that- we're ditching the garbage mattress that came with our place and replacing it with something firmer ASAP. 

But everything we do is at best a sand castle fort against the persistent turbulent advance of this suffering. "To all my haters: you were absolutely right about everything." Lol.

So this ended up being about my ouchies again, it was supposed to be about the nice night that distracted me from that and most other things. Mad productivity regarding www.dogecon.lol. Really excited and proud of what we're building, that distracts me from the BS spine thing too.

But there go my leg muscles spasming again. Gah. My kingdom for some intuitive proprioception. Oh ruined temple of my body, just *tell me what to do to you*. Inversion didn't work. Chiro didn't work. Nothing is working and despite exercise and attention you're getting weaker and worse. Tell me how to improve you. Urgh. This counts as a complete thought even though it ultimately has no satisfying end or conclusion.