---
layout: post
title: Story of Dogecon- Reflective Essay
---

As I spent today quite sick, but valiantly pushing ahead with the final touches on a 2500-ish word essay reflecting on yesterday's powerpoint presentation, I thought I'd upload that in its entirety as today's blog. Hold onto your hats, this is quite extensive.

Note: downloading the .pptx from Google Slides breaks all the fonts to a degree that makes the file unviewable. It can be viewed directly [on Google Slides via this link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tnggXqbUBjAO8Vf3n_cIwHgRohEgQn-kI8N493A3F9U/edit?usp=sharing).

# The Story of Dogecon Vancouver: Background

This presentation covers the origins of [Dogecon Vancouver](http://dogecon.fun/mainpages/memories.html), a cryptocurrency cultural biennial convention which was first held June 21-24, 2018. Since the introduction of Bitcoin a little over a decade ago, we have seen the development of an aggressively tribalist cryptocurrency industry. One of these cryptocurrencies, Dogecoin, was originally created as somewhat of a joke, utilizing an image of the “Doge” meme (a wise-looking Shiba Inu dog from Japan, [whose real name is Kabosu](https://www.theverge.com/2013/12/31/5248762/doge-meme-rescue-dog-wow)). Since the introduction of Dogecoin six years ago, an overwhelmingly positive and charitable community has arisen around this coin, accomplishing such feats as sponsoring the [Jamaican bobsled team to go to the 2014 Winter Olympics](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/jan/20/jamaican-bobsled-team-raises-dogecoin-winter-olympics) as well as a [Dogecoin Nascar racer at Talladega Speedway](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/mar/27/nascar-dogecoin-sponsor-josh-wise-talladega-superspeedway). In short, Dogecoin presents the fun, whimsical antidote to the woes of the now increasingly mainstream cryptocurrency industry.

Myself and a few other decentralized technology nerds originally envisioned Dogecon Vancouver as a celebration and ceasefire between these many bitter communities, and just like Dogecoin itself, we birthed that half-joking dream into real life. We held four days of celebration across the summer solstice weekend in 2018, with visitors joining from four continents alongside local Vancouverites who were new to cryptocurrency. Operationally, we had bit off more than we could chew, and the four core organizers got very little sleep as we supervised the 200+ event in five different locations. 

Now, we are beginning operations for the next instance of this convention. This time we’re lucky to have things like projected budgets and timelines. Perhaps most crucially, unlike the first year, we’re not setting up a non-profit and bank account three months before the event itself. Given the ample comparative lead time available, I’ve chosen to consciously pursue classes like Document Design in Winter Term 2 to tackle crucial skill sets like graphic design that I’ve always told myself “I’m just not good at.” 

As you’ll see in the content of my slides, there is a delicate balancing act to be performed here. The context in which I complete most of my work is somewhat countercultural, and thus my stylistic choices are often aberrant from professional expectations. This is why I found working through the Duarte texts line-by-line so valuable, though. If there’s one transferable thing I learned early on in filmmaking, it’s that in order to get away with breaking the style rules, you must be very clear on what they are. So, as I’ll reflect upon in the design section, there were many choices made in this presentation’s layout which would be considered downright “garish” in the boardroom, or even the library, but are positioned as an intentional connection to my audience’s love for rebellion, glitch art, and most of all, memes. 

# Intended Audience and Take-aways

As I had originally envisioned this assignment, the audience would have been potential sponsors for the upcoming second installation of our biennial convention. However, the deeper I dove both in iterative design of the presentation’s story, and in constructing parallel sponsorship documents with my organizing partner, the more I began to see that the “sponsor pitch” is a step beyond the universal “potential attendee” pitch in its sophistication. A presentation geared towards a general audience of potential attendees of a future event primarily seeks to tell its story in an enticing, whimsical manner. 

When it comes to asking organizations for money, though, that needs to be further “tuned” to how this benefits their organizational goals and needs. On the operational side, our non-profit team is still establishing the three main types of potential sponsors for 2020 (cryptocurrency companies, Vancouver tech companies, and Vancouver in-kind sponsors) so the “audience profile” was not sufficiently tweaked as this assignment developed. More fundamentally, though, working through both main Duarte texts helped me realize that the “sponsor pitch deck” needs to build upon the “universal pitch deck,” rather than vice versa.

So, keeping these changes in my path in mind, the “intended audience” for this is a member of the the online cryptocurrency community, or the local Vancouver esoteric technology and art scene. They are at least somewhat familiar with cryptocurrency on a technical level, and thoroughly acquainted with memes as a form of communication, humor, and art. Likely (but not always) between the age of 16 and 50, this group is enthusiastic about bucking convention and has a relatively short attention span. They will be particularly interested in seeing images or descriptions of one-of-a-kind or fringe happenings, and in the possibility of participating in a small slice of cultural history for this highly specialized interest group. They are also incredibly suspicious of being taken for a ride or “sold” something in any sort of artificial way. So the most important qualities for these viewers would be brevity, originality, and genuineness.

The “take away” component of intentional design here was the most challenging for me by far. It didn’t help that I waffled at first as to the actual intended audience, but even once I had settled on “potential attendees” as the audience profile, it was hard to put into words what I’d want them to conclude after seeing the presentation. Perhaps because I’m the primary designer behind all of the event content, it’s difficult to establish any sense of distance or perspective. I worked with the friend that I showed the presentation to in order to better define this message. I think that, at its core, the simplest way to phrase the intended conclusion for viewers is, whether they were present for Dogecon 2018 or not, “I cannot miss Dogecon 2020”. I believe that the presentation as it stands is a good first step towards this sort of urgency-in-marketing, and it will take a few further collaborative iterations with my team and community to get that on the mark.

# Design Elements

The greatest influence our recommended texts had on my presentation were their overall impact on the thoughtfulness and iterative steps I allowed time for throughout its development. I have been presenting professionally at blockchain conferences for a few years now, and I have definitely committed many of the cardinal sins referenced in both texts (Duarte, 2008; Duarte, 2010). This includes waiting till the night before to compile a slideshow- while I’d be brainstorming in some fashion leading up to that, it was never in so concrete of a fashion as that recommended by Duarte. 

So, by ensuring that my mental work happened out on paper and whiteboard, I had a much more tangible awareness of the many different stages and phases I passed through on the way to the final presentation. In the following section, I’ll first comment on the overall lessons I gleaned from Resonate, then focus on a number of specific tactics from slide:ology. Overall, with Duarte’s lessons in mind, I purposefully set out a structural plan of attack that enforced her recommendation that the composition of physical slides happens long after multiple iterations of structure and narrative. 

For me, this first involved identifying a unique slide layout template from the site Canva.com, and narrowing down sub-templates which would be useful for the types of media I planned to share. I wasn’t about to spend time learning how to build a presentation within the Canva site, so I treated this initial layout exploration as a “content framing” mechanism. Then, I exported the empty template slides I had chosen, and began to load in content via Google Slides after I had fully whiteboarded my intended narrative. Throughout the process, I aimed to specifically honour the principles in Duarte’s texts which I could recognize I had failed at in past presentations: simplicity, consistency, and producing something much more “lifeform” than “document.”

## Elements from Resonate

One of the primary achievements I targeted from Resonate was moving away from purely cerebral appeal to more emotional content. As I come from the disruptive technology industry, I’m used to hard data and its many visualizations being prioritized above all else. In my own previous large-scale presentations, while I’ve managed to keep it largely visual, I almost always used humorous images as a sort of crutch. I was, perhaps, a bit too nervous to make an earnest effort to engage the audience on a meaningful or emotional level. I think a great tool for this, in the present experiment, is what Duarte (2010) referred to as “evocative visuals.” 

I am particularly lucky in undertaking this project, because I have at my disposal a vast array of stirring event photographs and original digital art that was commissioned from our lead artist, Tanna Po, in 2018 (some examples of this original art in slides #3, 8, 9, 17, 20). I started by culling my available images from the hundreds to a folder of about forty images, and continually referred back to these as I was constructing the presentation narrative on whiteboard. Then, once I finally moved into Google Slides to construct the .pptx, I flipped back and forth between the browser and folder each time I tackled a new slide, trying to assign pictures as they fit both the concept and structural unfolding. 

This initial stage of slide construction is the point at which I employed a strategic approach to “mapping the journey,” as Duarte (2010) would describe it. Specifically, I laid out the images and “frames” to be used in an aggregative/accumulative structure, introducing more and more visual clutter and structural disarray as the presentation unfolded. My selection of the template resembling Windows 3 OS was in part to support this “pop up windows” visual effect, which may be slightly disconcerting but hopefully in an amusing way (according to my example viewer, this landed correctly). What started with some clean, simple memes and logos overlaid in the introduction (slides #1-9) explodes in a flurry of “pop-up” pictures from the event itself as the presentation crescendos (slides #10-16). Additionally, this pathway goes from “meme-centric” promotional graphics to “people-centric” photos of the conference in action. Finally, I circle back around to finish with simpler and cleaner diagrams, presenting a call to action and next steps (slides #17-20).

## Overall Layout: Pecha Kucha
	
To be honest, I remained a bit adrift as I prepared for this assignment, without a clear starting point as I worked my way through both Duarte texts. It was the moment I stumbled across the description of Pecha Kucha that I knew I had found my launching point. Pecha Kucha is a presentation format from Tokyo in which each presenter exhibits 20 slides which each advance after 20 seconds (Duarte, 2008, p. 226). I have long known that most of my creative struggles can be traced back to a lack of external constraints, as I am an overly enthusiastic associational thinker. Leave me with my own craft long enough, and I will continue to add and expand upon it. 

I seized upon this simple and elegant design, and the slides submitted here are an informal attempt at a Pecha Kucha structure. The only caveat is that, as my speaker’s notes are more of one large narrative rather than per-slide, I’d ideally advance the slides myself instead of automatically, unless I had significant lead in which to practice the timing. Still, the constraint of “this slide will only be up for twenty seconds” was a leading influence in my process, including those slides with animated elements. Those animations are still expected to unfold within that twenty second period. In terms of the process of crafting content into structure, the Pecha Kucha experiment was very interesting because anytime I wanted to add a slide, I had to find a space to collapse two others together. 

## Colour

Colour is another topic I’ve been endlessly dinged on- I seem to have a relatively outsider perspective on what colours are appealing to the average viewer. In fact, for Dogecon Vancouver 2018 itself, when my collaborator and I pushed our first website live (coded painstakingly in HTML, no Wordpress involved), colour was the biggest criticism we heard, with people jokingly comparing our palette to a funeral held by a cult. I’ve tried to lean into my weirdness here, but keep it softer than usual, with primarily spring pastels holding the theme together. They certainly present an odd contrast to the space background we happily employ, but I think it’s a contrast that perfectly parallels who we are as a group and event. 

Additionally, whereas originally bright yellow was a prominent and frequently occurring colour on the presentation’s palette, in a later-stage “bird’s eye review” where I looked at the presentation zoomed out, I decided to swap in a pastel green in place of the bright gold-yellow, using the latter only as a “highlight” colour in a few spots (see examples on slides # 3, 8, & 13-16). Despite my comparative informality, I definitely paid careful attention to Duarte’s (2008) words on this matter, and made sure to have strategic purposes for the colour choices I made. 

## Constraint

If I had to pick a single word to summarize all my design attempts in this exercise, it would be “constraint.” There are two particular areas I’ll discuss in which I practiced mindful constraint. The first of these is in regard to fonts. I kept to Kawasaki’s rule of using no fonts smaller than 30 points, something I have never done in a presentation before (Duarte, 2008, p. 234). Similarly, I restricted myself to two fonts only. The first of these was the oddball “old tech” custom font that had been employed in the template I used from Canva (used for titles such as slides # 1 & 2). The second of these was Courier New, which bridged the “old tech” template look effectively, while also building upon the useful information I had found on serif font readability from Duarte (2008).

The second area I practiced the balancing act of constraint was in powerpoint element animations. This was quite a dangerous area to pick, as most of the Duarte advice regarding animation is “don’t do it, or do it as little as possible.” The problem here is that I have literally never animated a single element on a powerpoint slide before, and I avoided it out of sheer laziness. I figured that, as this is an exercise in plumbing the rich possibilities of these platforms and tools, I should finally give it a shot with a reflexive eye toward self-control. My primary goal in animating some of the text, and accompanying text-boxes, was to account for a warning from Duarte (2010) about viewers “reading ahead” in the slides. While I had certainly levelled up my use of brevity in slide text from past presentations, there were still a few areas in which I made three distinct points on a single slide. By animating these to appear upon an additional click, I gave myself more power over the narrative and timing of delivery. I’d like to believe I exhibited constraint even in this exploration of animations, as I used a single effect (fade in) and a consistent, immediate timing across all slides’ use (slide animations are on slides # 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, & 20).

# Conclusion: Future Paths

Overall, I thought the design components I described above worked relatively successfully. I had taken copious notes from the Duarte texts, so there were multiple threads of components which I attempted and did not end up including, so there certainly were some failures overall. I think even in the instances where I didn’t end up incorporating the attempt (e.g. an unused diagram, “creating movement” with a panorama effect) were useful because I’ll remember those options better for future use. 

I now give more room for whitespace than I used to- in earlier presentations, there was sometimes zero whitespace in classic “document” sense. It’s still an area I can bear to improve- I tend to be much better at adding new ideas than editing them down and removing them, so this was overall a positive exercise for that. I’m aware that it will be useful at some point to journey even closer to the “mainstream” in terms of style and formatting, in order to get comfortable there when needed for more serious topics. Thus far I’ve never been asked to give a talk in an inappropriate context to use humor, and when that inevitably arises, I don’t want to be stuck with this crutch. 

Additionally, I should work further to improve my “signal to noise” ratio on slides and be mindful of distracting the audience. Just because this style of presentation is representative of my ecosystem and its interests, does not mean that it will get through accurately to every viewer I might want to connect to. Finally, I look forward to trying new specific structures and formats of presentations as a sort of mini-design challenge once in awhile. Given the creative leaps I experienced from maintaining the constraints of the Pecha Kucha format, I’d like to see what I can learn from other such structures.

# Works Cited

Duarte, N. (2008). slide:ology: The art and science of creating great presentations. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media.

Duarte, N. (2010). Resonate: Present visual stories that transform audiences. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
